README.md, before:

# ansible-pull-demo
demo of ansible-pull on AWS

## objectives
- [x] proof of concept that `ansible-pull` works between AWS EC2 instances and github
- [x] proof of concept that `ansible-pull` will continuously update the EC2 instance via crontab
- [x] proof of concept that a freshly deployed EC2 instance can be bootstrapped by ansible-pull
- [x] proof of concept that we can automate the EC2 ordering process and have it bootstrapped by ansible-pull
- [x] proof of concept that we can do all of the above from a private repo

### Verification
the `local.yml` playbook will run 2 ansible tasks as tests to leave evidence for manual verification later
1. /tmp/ansible-pull.txt will be populated with the date and time it last ran
1. syslog will be utilised to record an entry "Hello from ansible-pull"

## Use cases
### Scenario 1 - already deployed EC2 instance
- pre-requisites: `ansible` and `git`
- modify group_vars/all.yaml to your liking. it includes variables like `git_repo` and `git_dir`

### Scenario 2 - freshly deployed EC2 instance
- when launching an EC2 instance, copy and paste the contents of user-data.sh into `Advanced Details` \ "As text" text-box (step "3. Configure Instance").
- make small changes to the github repo
- check syslog and `/tmp/ansible-pull.txt` after a minute or 2

### Scenario 3 - use terraform to deploy and bootstrap an EC2 instance
- switch to the terraform directory
- modify `terraform/vars.tf` and update the key_name and aws_profile to fit your environment
- run `terraform apply` and answer yes to deploy the aws resources

### Scenario 4 - private repo
- save a SecureString parameter in `AWS Systems Manager / Parameter Store`. This demo uses the name `ansible-pull/git_token`
	`aws ssm put-parameter --name /ansible-pull/git_token --value "Securre_STRING" --type SecureString`
- an IAM role attached to the EC2 instance with the `AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore` policy. This is automatically taken care of by terraform

## TODO
- private repo: - set up a new automation user in github and give this new user "write" access thru your organisation. see this github issue for [more info](https://github.com/jollygoodcode/jollygoodcode.github.io/issues/11)
- properly exclude AWS hostname
- save the GitHub repo URL in one central location instead of the current 3 different locations:
  - user-data.sh
  - /terraform/EC2-instances.tf
  - group_vars/all.yaml

## Caveats
- `ansible-pull` has limitations
- playbook must be called `local.yaml`
- include command is for files not proper roles, although we can shoe horn it in
- somehow runs against AWS hostname even when the host file is provided - the work around seems to be to add the AWS hostnames. however, this means that `ansible-pull` will work 3 times and I am willing to suffer the errors rather than do that

# References
- [Using Ansible Pull In Ansible Projects](https://medium.com/splunkuserdeveloperadministrator/using-ansible-pull-in-ansible-projects-ac04466643e8)
- [ansible-pull examples](https://github.com/ansible/ansible-examples/blob/master/language_features/ansible_pull.yml)
- [New GitHub Organization API and deppbot](https://github.com/jollygoodcode/jollygoodcode.github.io/issues/11)
- [ansible-pull with private Github Repository](https://medium.com/planetarynetworks/ansible-pull-with-private-github-repository-d147fdf6f60b)
- [Running commands on your Linux instance at launch](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/user-data.html)

Commit message:

use a file instead for user-data

README.md, after:

# ansible-pull-demo
This is a demo of ansible-pull on AWS. You will need to install `terraform` locally on your machine if you want to implement the full demo. The bare minimum is the script called `user-data.sh`


## objectives
- [x] proof of concept that `ansible-pull` works between AWS EC2 instances and github
- [x] proof of concept that `ansible-pull` will continuously update the EC2 instance via crontab
- [x] proof of concept that a freshly deployed EC2 instance can be bootstrapped by ansible-pull
- [x] proof of concept that we can automate the EC2 ordering process and have it bootstrapped by ansible-pull
- [x] proof of concept that we can do all of the above from a private repo

### Verification
the `local.yml` playbook will run 2 ansible tasks as tests to leave evidence for manual verification later
1. /tmp/ansible-pull.txt will be populated with the date and time it last ran
1. syslog will be utilised to record an entry "Hello from ansible-pull"

## Use cases
### Scenario 1 - already deployed EC2 instance
- pre-requisites: `ansible` and `git`
- modify group_vars/all.yaml to your liking. it includes variables like `git_repo` and `git_dir`

### Scenario 2 - freshly deployed EC2 instance
- when launching an EC2 instance, copy and paste the contents of user-data.sh into `Advanced Details` \ "As text" text-box (step "3. Configure Instance").
- make small changes to the github repo
- check syslog and `/tmp/ansible-pull.txt` after a minute or 2

### Scenario 3 - use terraform to deploy and bootstrap an EC2 instance
- switch to the terraform directory
- modify `terraform/vars.tf` and update the key_name and aws_profile to fit your environment
- run `terraform apply` and answer yes to deploy the aws resources

### Scenario 4 - private repo
- save a SecureString parameter in `AWS Systems Manager / Parameter Store`. This demo uses the name `ansible-pull/git_token`
	`aws ssm put-parameter --name /ansible-pull/git_token --value "Securre_STRING" --type SecureString`
- an IAM role attached to the EC2 instance with the `AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore` policy. This is automatically taken care of by terraform

## TODO
- private repo: - set up a new automation user in github and give this new user "write" access thru your organisation. see this github issue for [more info](https://github.com/jollygoodcode/jollygoodcode.github.io/issues/11)
- properly exclude AWS hostname
- save the GitHub repo URL in one central location instead of the current 3 different locations:
  - user-data.sh
  - /terraform/EC2-instances.tf
  - group_vars/all.yaml

## Caveats
- `ansible-pull` has limitations
- playbook must be called `local.yaml`
- include command is for files not proper roles, although we can shoe horn it in
- somehow runs against AWS hostname even when the host file is provided - the work around seems to be to add the AWS hostnames. however, this means that `ansible-pull` will work 3 times and I am willing to suffer the errors rather than do that

# References
- [Using Ansible Pull In Ansible Projects](https://medium.com/splunkuserdeveloperadministrator/using-ansible-pull-in-ansible-projects-ac04466643e8)
- [ansible-pull examples](https://github.com/ansible/ansible-examples/blob/master/language_features/ansible_pull.yml)
- [New GitHub Organization API and deppbot](https://github.com/jollygoodcode/jollygoodcode.github.io/issues/11)
- [ansible-pull with private Github Repository](https://medium.com/planetarynetworks/ansible-pull-with-private-github-repository-d147fdf6f60b)
- [Running commands on your Linux instance at launch](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/user-data.html)
